chore: update contributing guide (#2140)
software-mansion/react-native-screens: guides/CONTRIBUTING.md

3. **Contributing to Code** &ndash; code-level contributions generally come in the form of pull requests. By contributing to code you help us with solving issues, fixing bugs or introducing new amazing features. If you want to start your adventure with open source it's good idea to take a look at [good first issue](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) on github. Read more about [contributing to code](#contributing-to-code). 

### Repository overview 

- `android` &ndash; source code of Android native implementation
- `common` &ndash; C++ code related to components - shadow nodes and state
- `cpp` &ndash; C++ code for turbo modules
- `Example` &ndash; paper version of React Native mobile example app
- `FabricExample` &ndash; fabric version of React Native mobile example app 
- `FabricTestExample` &ndash; fabric version of React Native mobile app containing test examples
- `gesture-handler` &ndash; interop between react-native-screens and react-native-gesture-handler
- `guides` &ndash; guides for developers
- `ios` &ndash; source code of iOS native implementation

> - `native-stack` &ndash; native stack v5, this will be deprecated in favor of react-navigation in near feature

Author: changed in https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/pull/2140/commits/54c3e6db27aa011589dd8ebe1a4f6a9f4fdf3aa7

> - `react-navigation` &ndash; git submodule containing react-navigation

Author: I don't like this part `Used mainly to contribute changes for newer versions of native stack.`. In this repository it is actually required so all our app works, so saying this is to contribute for newer native stack is a bit misleading (?)

> - `react-navigation` &ndash; git submodule containing react-navigation

Author: I can go with test changes instead of contribute, then it would make sense to me

- `reanimated` &ndash; interop between react-native-screens and react-native-reanimated
- `scripts` &ndash; cli utils 
- `src` &ndash; JS core code 
- `TestsExample` &ndash; paper version of React Native mobile app containing test examples
- `TVOSExample` &ndash; React Native for TVOS app wrapper for shared example code
- `windows` &ndash; react-native-screens support for Windows 

## Handling open issues 

Often understanding and reproducing the problem can be very time consuming task. The great way to help other contributors get up to the speed with solving an issue is providing detailed description and *reproducible* example. The github already has an template for creating issue, nevertheless we still encounter issues that do not have all necessary details, like:

- repository that we can clone and quickly see the problem,
- very generic reproduction steps,
- missing description,

> - not related or truncated stack trace. 

Author: Hm, the idea here was that I enumerate examples of missing details, one of them is "not related or truncated stack trace"

> What you can do is ask the owner for those details or try provide them by yourself - try to reproduce the problem and provide missing details, so other developer can start debugging straightaway! 🎉

Author: That was no the point here. My idea is that other contributors can discuss the problem in the comments to fill out missing details, so we have less work with reproduction, not creating another issue.

> What you can do is ask the owner for those details or try provide them by yourself - try to reproduce the problem and provide missing details, so other developer can start debugging straightaway! 🎉

Reviewer: Sure, let's do this then 👍 

```suggestion
What you can do is ask the owner of an issue for such details or try providing them by yourself - try to reproduce the problem and provide missing details, so that other developers could start debugging straightaway! 🎉
```

## Contributing to Code

> Posting Pull Requests to the issues is great way to contribute to Reanimated. If you eager to start contributing right away, we have list of [good first issue](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) that contain bugs which have limited scope. In this section we'll describe in more details how to play around with react-native-screens setup. 

Author: Oops

> [!tip]
> For commits and pull request names we follow a [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification.

We have two types of applications: Example (Example, FabricExample) and TestsExample (FabricTestExample, TestsExample), the first work as a showcase of the library, the latter contains specific test cases that corresponds to github issues. For example Test1864.tsx corresponds to issue [#1864](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/issues/1864). Our developer flow usually consists of creating new `Test*.ts` with code example that we try to fix or add. For the new features we try to prepare showcases in Example app.  

- `Example/src` &ndash; source code with showcase app for paper architecture
- `TestsExample/src` &ndash; source code with tests example app for paper architecture
- `FabricExample/src` &ndash; source code with showcase app for fabric architecture
- `FabricTestExample/src` &ndash; source code with tests example app for fabric architecture
- `TVOSExample/src` &ndash; source code with example app for TVOS
- `src` &ndash; contains JS core code
- `android` &ndash; source code related to Android native part

> - `ios` &ndash; source code related to iOS native part

Author: Yeah, it's pretty self-explanatory but I wanted to list all important places for the new contributor

> - `ios` &ndash; source code related to iOS native part

Author: @kkafar let you know what's your take at it

### Working on Android

> To start with, let install all dependencies:

Author: Something doesn't sound right after those changes. I think I leave it as it was was, just change the let to let's

> [!CAUTION]
> Currently, in this setup we have some code duplications, we planing soon to deprecate native-stack v5 and remove it from react-native-screens

#### Changes in native code 

If your change is only related to native code, for example you're fixing a bug, you **do not need** to post PR to `react-navigation`. `react-native-screens` is separate library installed alongside `react-navigation`, you can just bump `react-native-screens` version in you package.json file.

#### Changes in JS code or both

If you're changing native-stack v5 (`./native-stack`) you **do not need** to post PR to `react-navigation`.

If you're changing native-stack v6, v7 you **need to** post PR to `react-navigation`, as the code belongs there now.

If you're changing core functionality:
- If it's a bug fix and does not change the interface, then you **do not need** to create a PR in `react-navigation` repository.
- If you're adding a new feature or changing API, you **need to** create a PR in `react-navigation` repository.

> [!TIP]

> > As the rule of thumb, if you're changing the external interface, you need to prepare PRs for the `react-navigation` repository.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/pull/2140/commits/4e7c2cf577b090f42d690add4414ea22360f106a

### What is the flow to integrate with react-navigation

> When you propose the changes that require posting PR to react-navigation. Please follow those steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you propose the changes that require creating a PR to the `react-navigation` repository, please follow these steps:
```

> 1. Create PR with `react-native-screens` changes
> 2. Create PR that changes the native-stack in `react-navigation`
> 3. Wait for both to pass the review and have all all checks passed
> 4. Merge `react-native-screens` changes
> 5. Merge `react-native-navigation` changes
> 6. Bump the version of main branch index ref in `react-native-screens` 
> 7. Post and merge ASAP the main branch ref bump of `react-navigation`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a PR with `react-native-screens` changes
2. Create a PR with changes for native-stack in `react-navigation`
3. Wait for both to pass the review and have all checks passed
4. Merge `react-native-screens` changes
5. Merge `react-native-navigation` changes
6. Upgrade the version of main branch index reference in `react-native-screens` (usually, git checkout on a submodule should be sufficient)
7. Post and merge ASAP upgrade of the main branch reference of `react-navigation`
```

> 7. Post and merge ASAP upgrade of the main branch reference of `react-navigation`

Reviewer: Resolved in https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/pull/2140/commits/19d5dffbe43dffb03a52a23860ade079d7f3bfb1.

> [!WARNING]

> > Those steps are crucial, if you change the API in react-native-screens and won't merge react-navigation changes the libraries may go out of sync and crash i.e. because of not existing property. On the other hand, if you don't perform step 6 and 7, test examples and showcase app may stop working in react-native-screens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Those steps are crucial, since changing the API in react-native-screens and won't merging react-navigation changes may cause in going both libraries out of sync and crashing (i.e. because of not existing property) //I don't quite like that sentence. On the other hand, if you don't perform step 6 and 7, test examples and showcase app may stop working in react-native-screens.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/pull/2140/commits/4e7c2cf577b090f42d690add4414ea22360f106a

- **snippet of code or Snack that reproduces the bug**. Check out [this guide](https://stackoverflow.com/help/minimal-reproducible-example)
- version of `react-native` and `react-native-screens` 

### Got a question or an idea for a feature?

We use GitHub issues exclusively for tracking bugs. For questions and feature requests check out [Discussions](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/discussions).

We've provided a template on GitHub that simplifies the process of filing an issue.

Following these few steps will show great respect for the time of the developers managing and developing this open-source project.

We inform you that unrespectful issues will be closed.

## Ways to Contribute

> 1. **Replying and handling open issues** &ndash; great way to contribute without writing a single line of code is triaging the issues. We often get issues that have generic errors, occur only in very specific cases, do not have proper example or reproducible repository. One of they way to help is preparing and filling those details, which will help other contributors get up to speed with the issue faster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Replying and handling open issues** &ndash; great way to contribute without writing a single line of code is triaging the issues. We often get issues that have generic errors, occur only in very specific cases, do not have proper example or reproducible repository. One of the way to help is preparing and filling those details, which will help other contributors get up to speed with the issue faster. 
```

- `FabricExample` &ndash; fabric version of React Native mobile example app from apps/examples
- `FabricTestExample` &ndash; fabric version of React Native mobile app containing test examples from apps/test-examples
- `gesture-handler` &ndash; interop between react-native-screens and react-native-gesture-handler
- `guides` &ndash; guides for developers
- `ios` &ndash; source code of native implementation for iOS
- `native-stack` &ndash; description of native stack v5, actual implementation can be found in `src/native-stack`, this will be deprecated in favor of react-navigation in near feature
- `react-navigation` &ndash; git submodule that refers to the react-navigation repository. Used mainly to test changes for newer versions of native stack.
- `reanimated` &ndash; interop between react-native-screens and react-native-reanimated
- `scripts` &ndash; utility scripts, used by CLI
- `src` &ndash; library TS core code 
- `TestsExample` &ndash; paper version of React Native mobile app containing test examples from apps/test-examples
- `TVOSExample` &ndash; React Native example app for TVOS
- `windows` &ndash; source code of native implementation for Windows

## Handling open issues 

> Often understanding and reproducing the problem can be very time consuming task. The great way to help other contributors get up to the speed with solving an issue is providing detailed description and *reproducible* example. The GitHub already has an template for creating issue, nevertheless we still encounter issues that do not have all necessary details, like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often understanding and reproducing the problem can be very time consuming task. The great way to help other contributors get up to the speed with solving an issue is providing detailed description and *reproducible* example. The GitHub already has a template for creating issue, nevertheless we still encounter issues that do not have all necessary details, like:
```

- repository that we can clone and quickly see the problem,
- very generic reproduction steps,
- missing description,
- not related or truncated stack trace. 

What you can do is ask the owner of an issue for such details or try provide them by yourself - try to reproduce the problem and provide missing details, so other developer can start debugging straightaway! 🎉

## Contributing to Code

> Posting Pull Requests to the issues is great way to contribute to Screens. If you eager to start contributing right away, we have list of [good first issues](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) that contain bugs which have limited scope. In this section we'll describe in more details how to play around with react-native-screens setup. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submitting Pull Requests that resolve issues is great way to contribute to Screens. If you eager to start contributing right away, we have list of [good first issues](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) that contain bugs which have limited scope. In this section we'll describe in more details how to play around with react-native-screens setup. 
```

> [!tip]
> For commits and pull request names we follow a [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification.

> We have two types of applications: pure examples (Example, FabricExample as wrappers and apps/examples for source code) and examples, dedicated for tests from issues / pull requests (FabricTestExample, TestsExample as wrappers and apps/test-examples for source code). The first work as a showcase of the library, the latter contains specific test cases that corresponds to GitHub issues. For example, `Test1864.tsx` corresponds to issue [#1864](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/issues/1864). Our developer flow usually consists of creating new `Test*.tsx` file with code example that we try to fix or add. For the new features we try to prepare showcases in Example app.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have two types of applications: pure examples (Example, FabricExample as wrappers and apps/examples for source code) and examples, dedicated for tests from issues / pull requests (FabricTestExample, TestsExample as wrappers and apps/test-examples for source code). The first work as a showcase of the library, the latter contains specific test cases that corresponds to GitHub issues. For example, `Test1864.tsx` corresponds to issue [#1864](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/issues/1864). Our developer flow usually consists of creating new `Test*.tsx` file with code example that we try to fix or add. For new features we try to prepare showcases in Example app.  
```

> [!CAUTION]
> Currently, in this setup we have some code duplications that we're aware of. We're planning to deprecate native-stack v5 soon and remove it from react-native-screens.

#### Changes in native code 

If your change is only related to the native code (for example you're fixing a bug), you **do not need** to create a PR in the `react-navigation` repository. `react-native-screens` is a separate library installed alongside `react-navigation`, so you can just increase version of `react-native-screens` in your package.json file.

#### Changes in JS code or both

If you're changing native-stack v5 (`src/native-stack`) you **do not need** to create a PR in the `react-navigation` repository.

If you're changing native-stack v6, v7 you **need to** create a PR in the `react-navigation` repository, since the code belongs there now.

If you're changing core functionality:
- If it's a bug fix and does not change the interface, then you **do not need** to create a PR in `react-navigation` repository.

> - If you're adding a new feature or changing API, you **need to** create a PR in `react-navigation` repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you're adding a new feature or changing API, you **need to** create a PR in `react-navigation` repository exposing the feature there.
```

Author: Changed but rephrased a bit in https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-screens/pull/2140/commits/b4ed2ce317a49caca2226c3a42bf56eacaf49088

> [!TIP]
> As the rule of thumb, if you're changing the public interface, you need to open PRs to the `react-navigation` repository.

### What is the flow to integrate with react-navigation

When you propose the changes that require creating a PR to the `react-navigation` repository, please follow these steps:

1. Create a PR with `react-native-screens` changes
2. Create a PR with changes for native-stack in `react-navigation`
3. Wait for both to pass the review and have all checks passed
4. Merge `react-native-screens` changes

> 5. Merge `react-native-navigation` changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Merge `react-navigation` changes
```

### Naming convensions
1. Create a PR with `react-native-screens` changes
2. Create a PR with changes for native-stack in `react-navigation`
3. Wait for both to pass the review and have all checks passed
4. Merge `react-native-screens` changes
5. Merge `react-native-navigation` changes
6. Upgrade the version of main branch index reference in `react-native-screens` (usually, git checkout on a submodule should be sufficient)
7. Post and merge ASAP upgrade of the main branch reference of `react-navigation`

For commits and pull request names we follow a [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification.
> [!WARNING]
> Those steps are crucial, if you change the API in react-native-screens and won't merge react-navigation changes the libraries may go out of sync and crash i.e. because of not existing property. On the other hand, if you don't perform step 6 and 7, test examples and showcase app may stop working in react-native-screens.

> For branch names we use `@username/description-separated-by-dashes` convention.

Reviewer 2: I think we should have this line present somewhere, not entirely removed.

Author: I guess that applies only for screens team, not the "external" contributors, as they'll create forks anyway (?)

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think you're right.
